---
title: "Window Shopping"
date: "2025-01-30"
tags: ["vignette", "short story", "fiction"]
---

# Window Shopping

### *Background*

My high school english professor sent me an old vignette of mine that I had written for a class assignment. The task called for a series of vignettes, each with a different theme, and I remember being particularly interested in how pacing can invoke different emotions from a reader. One in particular stood out where every sentence was a question of varying length. The longer flowing prompts were used to set scenes while short stacato questions progressed the plot. This particular story does not use such strict story-telling restraints. This the first time I've revisited this piece in years, and I'm excited to share it with you all. 

### *Story*

Hours drag by as my feet begin to melt into the ground. My wife forces me here constantly, from open to close. I am starting to get really sick of all this standing, especially since she only buys one new outfit a day. Well, I get one too but that is beside the point. 

Day after day, we stand window shopping as strangers pass by. Sometimes, I create backgrounds for the shoppers, just trying to pass the time. A knight selecting the finest armor to slay the dragon and save the princess. A robber trying to make ends meet for his family. That woman there, tall, strong, blonde, with an aura of superiority around her, transformed into a celebrity, strutting the pathways leaving broken and stolen hearts in her wake. Did she just wink at me? Did I like it? I refuse to look my wife in the eyes, or even turn my head for that matter. We don’t speak for the rest of the day. Lights begin to dim and shops lock as we head home, still not a word. 

The next morning, we enter as the store gates clank to their daily positions, leaving each stores’ portal wide open for a new adventure, but today, I am alone. She must’ve left something at home, but she followed me here, right? As outfit after outfit flew past my eyes, I thought only of her, and how beautiful each and every one of those would look on her. I had lost my shine, my spark. Alone, I felt vulnerable, judged, insecure, as if people were inspecting every part of me. The celebrity returned that day, no doubt seeking me out, so when she passed me, she stopped and stared. Not at me, but through me, until she quickly moved on. Bells jingled and, minutes later, jingled again. Out walked Ms. Superiority wearing my wife’s outfit. WEARING HER OUTFIT. How dare she! First, she tries to steal me from her, and now her outfit? Anger quickly vanished as I saw her embrace a man of equal beauty to her own. Their love was evident, his smile grew as hers shined brighter. We used to smile like that, where was she? I stood in silence, wishing I could fix my mistakes. Talk to my wife before she left. Lights dimmed once again and I sulked home, still, she was nowhere to be found. 

As I began my routine again, I saw her. She stood in our normal spot, wearing the same clothes as the day she had left. My body froze, last breathe paralyzed in my throat. When she saw me, her grin comforted my aching heart. My smile rang out, shining brighter than the lights of the store. She came back to me. That night, as the manager put us into storage, not a word was spoken, for we each basked in the other’s company. I had returned to us, we were back.

*Date: 2025-01-30*
